# Cold Justice S01e01
 
 
**Kathryn Morris** stars as Philadelphia homicide detective Lilly Rush, who investigates long-unsolved crimes, cold cases. In the pilot episode, Lilly investigates a 1976 case involving a teenage girl who was beaten to death on a tennis court during a party at a plush estate. A maid to a wealthy family, Bonita Rafaela (**Lillian Hurst**), claims she witnessed the murder of teenager Jill Shelby (**Kate Mara**). Now dying of cancer, the maid who remained silent wants the killer brought to justice. Rush reopens the case, in which two brothers were originally suspected but not charged due to their powerful society family.
 
**Philadelphia, 1976** *("More than a Feeling", by Boston, plays in the background).* Two teenage girls are walking on the street, headed for a house party. One of them, Jill, is a bit reluctant. As her friend touches up Jill's makeup, Jill suggests they go back to Tim's room later. At the house, the maid, Bonita, tells the two brothers who are throwing the party that their parents wouldn't want that. One of the boys asks his brother if Jill is coming. The brother is confident she will. The girls arrive at the party and Jill kisses one of the brothers, Todd. Next thing, we see Jill's body laying on a tennis court, covered with blood.
 
**Download ✯ [https://9nieneuctivo.blogspot.com/?qu=2A0TdC](https://9nieneuctivo.blogspot.com/?qu=2A0TdC)**


 
**Cut to 2003** *("Soul Searching", by Soul Hooligan, plays in the background). Credits roll as the scene goes on.* It's a crime scene. Detectives Lilly Rush and Chris Lassing arrive to check out a brutal triple homicide. They survey the scene along with Detective Nick Vera. Nick informs Lilly that a civilian wants to talk to her at police headquarters. She asked for "the lady in homicide." Lilly seems a bit annoyed.
 
At police headquarters, Lilly meets with her boss, Lt. Stillman. Lilly asks about the civilian and Stillman says he told Nick to take care of her. Lilly says Nick's a pain in the ass. Stillman tells Lilly to talk to the woman and calm her down. Outside headquarters, Lilly meets with an old woman. The woman asks if Lilly "does murders", and Lilly confirms she investigates them. The woman's name is Bonita Rafael. She saw the murder of a girl on a tennis court in Chestnut Hill. **Flashback to 1976 -** Bonita is in her bedroom. She hears a noise and looks out of the window. She sees a man beating Jill with an object. **Cut to 2003,** Lilly asks if she called the police, but Bonita thought it wasn't her business at the time. When Lilly asks when it happened, Bonita answers 1976. Lilly is stunned, wondering why she's only saying this now. Bonita explains she had a son and needed to work but now that she has cancer, she wants to end this.
 
Lilly meets with Todd Whitley at his office. She notices his rowing awards. He thinks Lilly wants to talk about Eric, not looking surprised that his brother might be in trouble; Todd says it's "patterns of behavior". Lilly shows him a picture of Jill and asks if he recognizes her. Todd is disturbed. He insists this was painful for a lot of people, and that she should leave it alone. Lilly says she can't do it, it's an open case. Todd asks Lilly how someone like her becomes a cop. She sarcastically says it's bad education, limited talent. He believes she should be married and living a good life. Lilly snarks that no one ever asked, and there she is, working homicides. Todd says that as he told back in 1976, he spent the night with his brother. Lilly notes that it was actually a lawyer who said that, in a statement three weeks later. Todd states his father "owns half of Philadelphia". Lilly looks at him like this doesn't mean anything to her; and Todd explains that people like to see families like his in trouble, so they hired a lawyer. He adds that maybe her kind of people doesn't do that, but his kind of people do. Lilly asks if they do that even when there's nothing to hide. Todd declares he can't help her anymore, and gets up. Lilly brings up that he married Melanie. Todd says Melanie can't help her either. Lilly asks if he still has a problem with violence, and that she knows he once beat Jill up so hard she got three stitches. Todd argues she's wrong as the cops were back in 1976 - it was Jill's father who beat her regularly.
 
Lilly and Evelyn go visit Melanie, who says her husband doesn't want her talking to Lilly. Lilly asks if she doesn't want to solve the murder of her best friend. Evelyn tells Melanie this is important to her. She relents and lets them in. Lilly asks why Melanie came to the party with Jill but left alone. Melanie says she drank too much and had to go home. Lilly points out that back in 1976, Melanie made a big point of saying she didn't think Todd had killed Jill. Melanie replies that's because the detectives made a big point of asking it. Evelyn says that the cops were fixated on the Whitleys, and overlooked Tim, the cook who stayed in the Shelbys' guest house, and was with the girls that night. Melanie says Tim had told Jill to stop by at his house later, if she wanted.
 
Back at police headquarters, Lilly is telling Lassing how it's weird that no one really looked into this guy who was the mother's and best friend's main suspect. Tim is locked up in Frackville. Lassing doesn't believe he will talk to Lilly. Lilly replies she's an optimist. Lassing is not really keen on going with her, but does so. Lilly and Lassing speak to Tim. He's doing five years for forgery. Lilly asks if he was ever involved in a more serious crime. Tim says if she means Jill Shelby, no; he's a "cerebral criminal". Lilly asks if Jill came up to his house a lot. Tim confirms she and Melanie did, to get high. Lilly mentions Melanie thinks he killed Jill. Tim retorts that if Melanie married the prime suspect, she'd better point to someone else. Lassing adds that Jill's mom also thinks he did. Tim states that Evelyn lives in a certain world, and if the neighbor boy killed her daughter, that world is a lie. Lilly notes that Tim's alibi was going to bed at 10 p.m. that night. Tim realizes that Britt kept his word; he was actually having a "sleepover" that night with Bobby Jordan, a college boy from down the street. In 1976, they asked Det. Britt not to document it, but Tim believes Bobby will confirm his alibi now. Lilly asks if Jill ever talked to him about Todd. Tim says the girls told him everything, even things that they didn't tell each other; Jill complained that while Todd didn't treat her right, Melanie was sleeping with him. Lilly and Lassing are stunned.

They visit Melanie again. After sending her two daughters inside, she wonders why the police won't leave them alone. Melanie reveals that Eric showed up at their house drunk, after 6 years being sober. She already told Lilly about Tim, so she doesn't know why Lilly is still bothering them. Lassing reveals that Tim has an alibi, and that they know about her and Todd. Melanie gets defensive. Lilly warns that when Melanie tells them a lie, even a small one, it makes them think she's hiding other things. Lassing asks what Todd did to Jill that night. Melanie reiterates it wasn't Todd, and she knows it because she was with him that night. **Flashback to 1976 -** *("I'm Not In Love", by 10 CC, plays in the back)* Todd, Eric, Jill and Melanie are sitting near the pool drinking as the party winds down. Todd notices Jill's top, which has the American flag printed on it. He says she looks like a patriotic streetwalker. Jill says it was on "Seventeen", and leaves, upset. Eric asks Todd why he has to be a jerk, but Todd only scoffs at him to go comfort Jill. Eric goes after her. Melanie flirts with Todd that he could use a good manners school, and she could give him a tutorial upstairs. Todd casually asks about Jill, but Melanie doesn't care. **Cut to 2003 -** Melanie says she's obviously not proud of that. Lassing notes Eric may have had strong feelings for Jill. Melanie says so what, and Lassing wonders why Eric fell off the wagon just because Jill's name came up.
 
At a park where people are exercising, Lilly is hiding behind a tree dressed in running clothes, watching Todd after he finishes rowing. She throws water in her face to look like she's sweating and leaves her hiding spot, to "coincidentally" run into Todd. They start talking about the case. Lilly reveals she knows Todd was with Melanie that night. He replies then she understands why he wouldn't want people to know it. Lilly says she does, but Todd could've just said he was sleeping; instead, he gave Eric an alibi. She believes Eric killed Jill, and that's why Todd can have a normal life while Eric's a mess. Todd tries to leave. Lilly continues probing, wondering if Eric's alcoholism started after the murder. Todd threatens he can make her life very difficult. Lilly presses if he's covering for Eric. Todd asks what's the point of all that, after so many years. Lilly declares people shouldn't be forgotten, even if they are her kind of people. They don't have a lot of money, they don't have lawyers, but they matter. They should get justice too. Todd mocks that Lilly is a crusader. He laughs and wishes her luck.
 
Late that night at the office, Stillman finds Lilly working. He asks if sleeping is optional for her. Lilly insists she isn't tired, but she does look tired. Stillman reveals that Commissioner Bradley looked at her case today; he and the Whitley brothers' father went to college together. Apparently, Todd called Bradley about Lilly. Lilly dismisses Todd as a baby, and that she doesn't care. Stillman advises her to be careful. Nick shows up and announces Eric is here (joking that he's Lilly's boyfriend), having been arrested for drunk driving. Lilly runs to see him and meets Eric in the hall as he's being released. He claims it's her fault he crashed his car, to which Lilly retorts the only thing she did was bring up Jill. Eric says their lawyer called the commissioner. Lilly already knows, so Eric asks why doesn't she back off. Lilly answers that's because she feels they're "one scotch away from a good conversation".
 a2f82b0cb4
 
